We're gonna be looking at grids
in this lesson and how you can
construct a grid where you have
bootstrap automatically
sets the grid,
or you can predefine
what grid columns you
want for your elements to
take in the construction
of the grid.
And you can also
have them behave
differently depending
on the screen size,
where they're gonna go from the
horizontal to a
vertical stacking
of the page elements on
the smaller sizes once
it hits the break point.
And in this case we're
using Excel and SM.
So the small size
screens are gonna
stack vertically once they
reach that breaking point.
And the larger ones
are only going to
stock whenever we
go less than 1200.
That's the screen
size and that's
the breakpoint for the
Excel size for the columns.
In addition, you
can get Bootstrap
to set your columns using CLL.
I've got some examples of that
coming up in this lesson.
Bootstrap grid
system is built with
Flexbox and allows 12 columns.
So let's look at the
basic structure.
So we're going to add the
grid within the container.
And the grid is constructed
using the classes.
So the parent class for the
grid is going to be roll.
This is going to
be for each one of
the rows that we want
to add into the grid.
And then within the grid,
we're gonna have
number of columns.
So this is up to you how many
columns you want to set.
And it will automatically
resize itself depending
on the column.
So if you want to do
different column sizes,
there's basically six
different classes of columns.
And each one scales
up depending on what the
size of the device is.
Take a look at some
of those columns.
And one of the most
basic ones is call.
What this will do is this
is automatically going
to handle the build
of the layout.
If we have any number
of elements that are
using call that are
contained within the role,
then bootstrap is
automatically going to
calculate the
number of elements.
I'm also going to add
in the box class,
and that's the one
that we've got as
a custom class so that we can
see the structure of
the page element.
Also within this element,
I'm going to add a custom style.
We can have some spacing
between the two elements,
Between the two main containers.
So again, this is the
fluid one and this
is just the regular one
that we have on the page.
I'll also add in some
padding at the top.
Obviously you don't
have to do this,
but this is just so
it displays better
within the display area
as we're constructing it.
Let's go ahead and we're going
to add in another column.
So we've got two columns.
Now we can have three columns.
What happens now is that
Bootstrap is automatically
constructing those columns.
So as we resize,
those columns are also
going to re-size properly.
If we add it within
the fluid container,
it will take up the
full available space.
There are also still going
to automatically resize.
This is if you want
bootstrap to be able to
set the resizing
of your elements.
And this is the easiest way
to get that and create that.
Also within the row.
Let's create a second row
that's going to automatically
stack them if the next
role has four columns,
adding in another one.
And just letting
Bootstrap handled
the design and the
structure of that,
that's automatically going to
re-size it nice and neatly.
So we can also set and specify
the columns on the
different sizes
and what their
breakpoints are gonna be.
So show you how to do that
and we'll do a split here
between the rows and we'll
set up another column.
And this time we're going
to be looking at setting
the column using the small size.
We want this column to go
to across this column,
we're gonna use a small size
and this one can be four.
And then we'll just set
these ones as well.
So that total is going
to equal to 12 columns.
And we see now that this one
is going to get two slots.
This one is going to get
four columns, again, 24.
As the re-size.
That's going to adjust
depending on the screen size.
Once we shrink it down,
once is less than the
breakpoint on the small size,
those columns are
now going to stack.
Instead of being
within the role.
That's dependent
on what you set.
So right now we're using the SM.
And the SM is for small devices.
And if that means that if
the screen size is equal
or greater than 576,
it's going to set
the column widths,
but if it's less than 576,
then it's going to break that
down into separate roles.
Let's try another one where
we're going to use
instead of the SM,
let's use the Excel size.
So this is gonna be the extra
large for extra
large screen sizes.
This is going to have
a breakpoint of 1200.
Anything that we have smaller
than that breakpoint is
going to stack them
automatically as separate rows.
And once we get to the
larger breakpoint,
It's going to match what we had
for the small size screens
where we're using the SM
with the same column sizes,
where we'll use the SM.
Again, that's the column sizes.
And this is gonna
be an example of if
we have a number
which doesn't total
12 feet have that is that we
end up with having the
first one being one column,
the second one being to,
the third one being three,
the fourth one being for,
then it just leaves
THE other two columns
blank because we don't have
any properties that are taking,
we don't have any
elements that are taking
that space when we
resize it back down.
Because it's gonna be
on the smaller screen.
It's going to end
up stacking them
vertically instead of
setting them horizontally.
It makes designing your grid
easy and constructing the layout
for your webpage
that you can set
how it behaves on the
various screen sizes.
Add in the different columns
to construct your page grid.
And you can be ready to
move on to the next lesson.